               Phantasmal, the Bundled Release

You've downloaded and unpacked the bundled release of Phantasmal for
DGD.  Congratulations, you're well on your way to a life of
satisfaction and serenity.  Well, at least to running a MUD on a solid
and secure driver, free of segfaults.

To install, you'll need to run the install script in this directory.
It will customize the DGD configuration file for the directory you've
installed it in, and possibly other aspects of your system.  There may
be more details in the INSTALL file in this directory.


                         Port Numbers

In your .dgd config file, there will be three or more binary ports,
and one or more telnet ports listed after "telnet_port =" and
"binary_port =".  Each of the listed port numbers is used by
Phantasmal, and you may want to poke a hole in your firewall for it
(or may not).  Don't change how many of each there are until you
understand what the code is doing to set those ports up.  They don't
have to be in numerical order -- Phantasmal just uses the first,
second and third listed binary ports differently from each other.  It
doesn't really care what port number it is on your machine, just which
entry in its .dgd file.

Phantasmal uses the third binary port for standard login, or the only
telnet port.  Either of those should get you a satisfactory result if
you use them for telnetting to the MUD.  The first binary port is the
safety port - you don't want normal players using it.  The second
binary port is for SSH, and you'll want to instruct the players in how
to use that as a MUD client.


                           Versions

This bundled release incorporates a recent version of DGD, a recent version
of Phantasmal, and a test game.  The test game is basically a tutorial to
show you how you can build your MUD on Phantasmal.

To find out what version of Phantasmal and DGD you're getting, you can
check the VERSIONS file in the top directory.  You can also check the
startup messages to find out your DGD version, and the logfile in
log/System.log to find out your Phantasmal version.
