                       Phantasmal MUDLib for DGD

To get Phantasmal running, please read the INSTALL document instead of
this one.  To make significant code modifications to Phantasmal,
please read SETUP instead of this document.

Phantasmal is based on the Kernel MUDLib that ships with DGD.  It
tries to be reasonably fast and secure, but prefers robustness to
speed.  Its primary focus is on features not commonly found in MUDs,
especially those that should be.  It currently competes primarily with
Melville and with GurbaLib.  Melville is simpler to use and competes
for implementors who would build mostly from scratch.  GurbaLib is
more complex and competes for implementors who mainly just want to
build new areas.  See "http://phantasmal.sourceforge.net/Compare.html"
for a detailed comparison of Phantasmal to other current DGD MUDLibs.

Phantasmal is designed primarily for low-volume MUDs (those with a
small number of simultaneously-connected players) and to allow
excellent service for that small number.  In this day and age a
hobbyist MUD that gets 50 to 60 players a night is considered to be
doing quite well.  Modern cheap desktop computers are ridiculously
powerful when serving this small a number of connections.  Bandwidth
is almost always more of a worry than processor speed.  Many standard
concerns about memory usage and processor speed are misplaced, and
have been for years.  Naturally this would be different if 3D graphics
or even 2D bitmaps were involved in large quantity, or if large
numbers of NPCs were to be reasonably simulated.  Still, the age where
DikuMUDs are all we can afford to run are over.

Phantasmal hopes to serve geographically small, dense MUDs with a
lower number of more complex rooms rather than sprawling but simple
wildernesses.  Sprawling wildernesses are best created algorithmically
on the fly (or in a cache) rather than by simply duplicating many,
many similar rooms -- this algorithmic generation of rooms is
essentially compression, trading off the amazing processor capacity of
modern machines for vastly reduced memory usage.  Eventually,
Phantasmal hopes to serve these algorithmically created wildernesses
as well.


                        Current Status

Phantasmal is currently suitable for acting as an example DGD MUDLib
or as a simple MUSH.  There's a lot of infrastructure in place, but a
lot of it simply isn't demonstrated usefully to the end user.  More is
available to an administrator than an end user, but it's still far
from being unpack-and-play, and doesn't have any real built-in game.

The latest information, features, code and tutorials can be located at
"http://phantasmal.sourceforge.net".


                           Features

Phantasmal's basis in DGD and DGD's Kernel MUDLib give it a lot of
built-in security and mean it works on a portable, known, stable base.
It also gives it a well-tested underlying object architecture good
enough to keep commercial MUDs (like Skotos' servers) up for years.

It has a powerful OLC system which is the preferred way to create new
content.  It also allows human-readable and -writable configuration
and object files for rooms, portables, exits and objects which are an
alternate way to create content.  They are quite easy to generate by
automatic scripts or by offline text editing.  These can be loaded by
administrator characters using only in-MUD commands or by the host
machine's administrator by directly altering MUD configuration files.

It sports a powerful help system with rich configuration files, full
localization, and Soundex matching for near-misses (if a user asks for
help on "polices" instead of "policies", for instance).

See "http://phantasmal.sourceforge.net/Current.html" for a more
complete manifest of the current features of the most up-to-date
version of Phantasmal.

                                                          Angelbob
