Actions are a family of structures, like phrases.

Simple actions are instantaneous.  They carry information about what different
characters will perceive when they occur (thus a "to victim" string, a
"to actor" string, and a "to others" string -- maybe "to oneself" if one
is both actor and victim.)  They carry information about how perceptible
they are and what sense (vision, smell, hearing, vibration sense, infrared,
etc) they occur in.

Continuing actions are actions which occur for a fixed period of time.
They should occur for a longish period of time, and should have a message
for when they begin and another for when they end.  They may also have
actions for people "walking in on them" -- a continuing sound will have
different messages for when it begins (i.e. to people in the room), when
somebody walks away from being able to hear it, when they walk back, and
when it finishes.  That may be four separate instantaneous actions.

More complex continuing actions, those with shorter durations or more
complex operation (including possible failures or alternate endings),
will be correspondingly more complex.  The action of drawing a sword
may appear as one instantaneous event or as two or more:

  > draw sword
  You draw your sword with a flourish.
  > sheathe sword
  You do.
  Odin enters.
  > draw sword
  You reach for your sword.
  Quick as a flame, Odin wields his spear.
  You draw your sword with a flourish.

More complex actions may also involve multiple senses, and different
messages depending on what senses are engaged.  For instance:

  An explosion rocks the hall, the first of many.  It shakes you
  down to your toes.
  > close eyes
  You hear an enormous "boom!" and smell smoke and brimstone.  You are
  shaken down to your toes.
  > hold nose
  You hear an enormous "boom!".  You are shaken down to your toes.
  > curl up in a ball on the floor
  You hear yet another enormous "boom!".  You smell smoke and brimstone.
  > am I holding my nose?
  No, your arms are around your knees.
